801/3015 Advanced Programming for Data Science
Assignment 3: NLP Web-based Data Application
Milestone II: Web-based Data Application

Assessment Type
Group assignment. Submit online via Canvas→Assignments→Assignment 3→Milestone II: Web-based Data Application. Marks are awarded for meeting requirements as closely as possible. Clarifications/updates may be made via announcements/relevant discussion forums.

Due Date
End of Week 11- Please check Canvas for the exact due date and time

Marks
15

1. Overview
In Milestone I you built various machine-learning models using different document vector representations to recommend a clothing item review. In Milestone II, you will develop an online shopping website based on the Flask web framework. The website allows online shoppers to browse clothing items and lets shoppers create new reviews. This website will make use of one machine learning model that you trained in Milestone I. It will be used to create a recommendation label to assign to newly created reviews. This feature will help to aid in creating labels for item recommendations for other website users and improve the user experience of online shoppers.

Data source: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/nicapotato/womens-ecommerce-clothing-reviews
Note: The dataset has been modified for the course, hence, it is not in its original state.

2. Learning Outcomes
This assessment relates to the following learning outcomes of the course:
● CLO 5: Document and maintain an editable transcript of the data pre-processing pipeline for professional reporting;
● CLO 6: Build small to medium-scale data-driven applications using a Web development framework.

3. Assessment Details
In this milestone, you are required to build an online shopping website using Flask.

Clothing Data
To test and demonstrate the functionality of the website, you will need some clothing review data. The dataset could be downloaded from the Canvas (Assignment 3 – Milestone II). Two new columns “Clothes Title” and “Clothes Description” are artificially generated to add information to the website. The rest of the data is the same as Assignment 3 Milestone I. If you want, you can also create any additional artificial data (e.g. images, …) for the purpose of display (this is optional).

Website Layout and Design
The layout and design of the website is flexible. You can refer to the exercises in the material from Week 10 and 11, or an online shopping website (such as theiconic.com.au)


Minimum Functional Requirements
There are minimum functional requirements of the developed website for online shoppers and store owners/developers, respectively. Feel free to include other functionalities that suit you.
Functionality for Online Shopper Item Search
The online shopping website will allow online shoppers to effectively search for an item that are of their interest. The search could be based on the categories, which could be used as keyword for search. Upon user entering a keyword string, the develop system should return a message saying how many matched clothing items have matched, and it also returns a list of item previews that are relevant to the keyword string. When users click on an item preview, they can see the full details and review of the item. You need to design a search algorithm that:
● support to search keyword strings in similar forms. For example, if users enter the keyword strings “dress” or “dresses”, the search results from these two keyword strings will be the same.
● Apart from the above requirement, you have the flexibility to use simple string matching- based methods, or any other language models, or build your own models to evaluate the relevance of a clothing item to the entered keyword string.

Functionality for Buyers and Employees Creating labels for item recommendations
The critical aspect of the online shopping website is to recommend similar items to new customers which depends on the positive recommendation of items from previous customers. The website allows buyers (customer who have bought an item) to add a review about the item. When creating a new review, the buyer can enter information such as title, review description, rating, etc.
When a new review is created, using the review description (and/or review title), the website should generate a binary label whether the customer recommends the item or not (‘0’ or ‘1’ for not recommended and recommended respectively). Though this happens behind the screen, for this assignment, the label/recommendation is generated by the model(s) which is shown to the buyer/customer. The reviewer can choose a different response if the buyer does not find the response from the classification model suitable, i.e., they can override the value suggested by the website. Upon confirmation, the review should be included on the website and be accessible via URL.
You have the flexibility to choose the language model and the classification model(s) for the task. But if you aim at DI/HD, at least two/three different models must be built and fused for final result.

Note: You do not need to create any customer login for the shopping website.

Video Demonstration
The requested functionalities should be demonstrated through a video presentation. The video should not exceed 3.5 minutes and must cover the following three requirements:
1. Clothes browsing demonstration
2. Creating a new review
3. Displaying the newly created review

You may use any tool to record the video. If you are unable to find another suitable tool, Microsoft Stream is recommended for recording the presentation.

4. Marking Guidelines
Marking Criteria
The marking of this milestone will consider both the design, implementation and demonstration of the website.
Please refer to the rubric on the assignment page for mark allocation details.

5. Submission
The final submission of this milestone must include:
● The Python source code

